[Music]
having found the perfect pork I thought
the next step would be simple but months
of experimentation later and the recipe
was still proving elusive the other
thing that I've completely changed my
thoughts on is filler
I thought the beginning of this journey
but if I'm going to try make the perfect
banger I don't want any fillers for this
cheap and nasty and it's something that
mass-produced sausages contain because
you don't have to use as much meat
replace it with cheap old filler but you
know what there's something about the
texture and and then the flavor and feel
it brings to the sausage but for me just
makes it a banger in here I've toasted
some bread just plain old British sliced
bread what's important though is it has
to be toasted all the way through
completely dry and that goes into a
container and then covered with hot
water and we'll leave that to infuse for
about an hour during that time all that
flavor from the toasted bread is going
to permeate the water after an hour
strain it through a fine sieve make sure
you press to get all of the juices out
and we end up with this toasted bread
flavor water this really for me is the
heart of a banger now to this I'm going
to add some Rusk
and then all of my seasonings I've got
some black and white pepper some ginger
nutmeg and mace here's some golden syrup
this is gonna add some color and also
the sweetness is going to balance with
the spices really well and now I need to
put this in the freezer it's really
important when making sausages you keep
all of the ingredients and the equipment
as cold as possible but without freezing
now for the meat this porks from Midland
white pig and I've gone for leg the
reason I chose the leg is because the
muscle structure in the leg has a very
good ability to hold on to moisture and
that's going to mean our sausage is
gonna be much more succulent salt no
need to blend the salt and the meat
together what's happening here is the
salts putting the proteins from the meat
and that's gonna make the whole mixture
bind together an emulsifier and that
helped give us the text of the banger
that we're really looking for the
friction of the blades going through the
mixture and cutting the protein strands
creates heat only takes a couple of
minutes to heat the meat up we're at ten
degrees now which is as warm as you want
to get it now let's go straight back in
the freezer here's some that are already
chilled and here's the toasted bread
mixture also pre chilled when I think of
a banger
I think of me as a six seven eight year
old in the garden with a mate you build
a fire but there was something about
that smoky flavor and the smell of the
fat from the sausage dripping into the
fire and they thought well if we could
take some back as that's really good at
soaking up flavor and it just cook some
fat over a fire I'm kind of capturing my
memory of that fire into the sausage for
the recipe
I've now pureed it it's important that
this is at room temperature if it's too
cold it'll be too hard and it won't
emulsify with the rest of the
ingredients and fats essential for a
banger for me a banger isn't a banger
without fat it's also a wonderful
carrier of flavor finally just to
reinforce that bready flavor I'm going
to put a couple of slices of bread in it
now we need to blend all of these
ingredients until we've got something
that resembles a dense thick puree if
you've got too many ingredients in here
it will take longer and longer to mix
and the longer it spends in here the
warmer it's going to get keep it below
10 degrees centigrade or as cold as
possible
pack the mixture as tightly as possible
into a sausage stuffer with no air
pockets so your bangers will bang next
take some natural sausage casings wash
carefully both inside and out since they
come packed in salt which needs removing
[Music]
you see the water running down the
inside I'll wash the salt out feed the
casing onto the nozzle and leave to soak
for 5 minutes in cold water once
attached make sure the end of the nozzle
is clear and force the meat through
until it appears then put a knot in the
casing and continue forcing the meat
through work quite quickly when all is
done tie a knot in the other end then
squeeze and twist to create your bangers
alternate the direction so clockwise for
the first one anti-clockwise in a second
and there we are